ow each of us creates colors because
maybe we all do it differently
do we all see the same colors people
have been asking this question for for
centuries really and it's a fascinating
question is one person's perception of
red the same as someone else's or in
fact could your perception of red be my
perception of green the first experiment
was looking at how people arrange colors
together they were given 49 different
tiles and asked to place them in any
pattern they liked on the board and the
question is what do they do and they're
basically going to create a pattern but
which pattern and why that pattern is
opposed to another one there are
hundreds of billions of different ways
these colors could be arranged after a
lot but he found that people didn't
arrange them at random but in patterns
that were so predictable the bow could
generally work out how people were going
to place them together so if you gave me
a color I could predict the colors that
people would put around it almost
perfectly and yet each person there had
no instruction just to take these colors
put them on this board and they all
created something was highly predictable
the clue to predicting the pattern as
people were creating lay in nature
people were creating structures that
were similar to the natural images they
saw every day so what that tells us is
that when it comes to seeing color we
can't escape from our ecological history
we can't help impose that structure onto
the world the experiments
looked at different aspects of color
perception looking at how young and old
people connected color and emotion
[Music]
looking at how they perceived patterns
of light and dark and of course at how
color affects the perception of the
passing of time for those of you who see
the shades of gray different over here
than over here you're gonna be a bit
surprised
when he examined the results in detail
he found consistent patterns in how
groups of people perceive color we
discovered that in fact people of
different sects people of different age
people have different levels of status
actually perceive color differently and
that seems really quite remarkable when
we remember that all we're dealing with
is the light that falls entre
you